Adept: Automatic Differentiation using Expression Templates
Version: 1.0, September 2013
By Robin Hogan <r.j.hogan@reading.ac.uk>


INTRODUCTION

The Adept software library provides the capability to automatically
differentiate an algorithm written in C or C++.  It uses expression
templates in a way that allows it to compute adjoints much faster than
the leading current tools that use the same approach of operator
overloading. Benchmark calculations found that Adept was typically
2.6-9 times faster than ADOL-C, CppAD and Sacado for adjoint
calculations, and often not much slower than hand-written adjoint
code. The code to run these benchmarks on your platform is provided in
this package.

The web site is at http://www.met.reading.ac.uk/clouds/adept/ where
you can find the latest version of the code as well as a paper
describing how it works:

Hogan, R. J., 2013: Fast reverse-mode automatic differentiation using
expression templates in C++. Submitted to ACM Trans. Mathematical
Software.


INSTALLING

This code has been tested under Linux using the GNU C++ compiler and
the instructions that follow assume you are using a Unix-like system.

The software library is mostly contained in the header file
include/adept.h, but you also need to compile the functions in
adept/adept.cpp.  Type "make" in the present directory, which will
create a static library in the lib/ directory.

You may well need to edit Makefile_include for your system.

The test/ directory contains some fairly simple examples of the use of
the code: type "make test" to compile them.

The advection/ directory contains simple code for benchmarking.  The
multiscatter/ directory contains the code for a software library that
has been adapted to use Adept.  Type "make multiscatter" to compile it
and read multiscatter/README. Since this adaption was done in order to
evaluate Adept against ADOL-C, CppAD and Sacado, you will need first
to have installed these libraries, and edited the Makefile_include
file to point to their installation directories.  However, "reduced"
versions of these benchmark executables are also available to just
test Adept against hand-coded adjoints.

To install the include file and static library into
/usr/local/include/adept.h and /usr/local/lib/libadept.a, type "make
install" as superuser. Type "make uninstall" to delete them again.


DOCUMENTATION

This is a PDF file in the doc/ directory.

Feel free to contact me with queries, comments and bug fixes. I'm also
interested to know of successful uses of the code.


LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Adept and all the code in this package is distributed under the
conditions of the GNU General Public License version 3 - see the
COPYING file for details. If you wish to use this library under
different terms then please contact Robin Hogan
(r.j.hogan@reading.ac.uk).

If you use Adept in published scientific work then I request that you
cite the paper above, but this is not a condition of the license.

All code in this package has the same copyright: 

Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Robin Hogan and the University of Reading




